# Excel and Python: One is the Microsoft licensed application, and the other is the open-source object-oriented languange. So what are they put together for?

How to leverage Excel as an independent development environment (IDE) for python
Python libraires needed: pandas, numpy to initiate this development 
## Background
When your code development is ready to move in implementation, where you would like it to be? For a small-scope of project, we might just want to create a business-friendly development process to deliver the outputs in the Excel files. Like most programmers, I have tried different "code editors" to install python libraries, create a virtual envrionment prior to the start of off-line development. With current technology advancement, database tools, cloud platforms and any specific tools used in the data pipelines start to share a lot of common ground. That said, the streamlined process is more easier to achieve in these days. The repository is to show you how you can use Excel as the data table, python eidtor, the output files.
## Use-case: Output layout conversion from the multidimensional strcuture to the tabular form
Oracle Hyperion Essbase is highly recommended by financial analysts. The Excel add-in, Smart View is required to access the data hosted in Essbase. Although querying data on Essbase by hierarchies makes the financial reports easily read, data professionals, like data scientists and programmers would find it quite different from the usual scripting experience. All the data fetching, table joins, computations, and more are ill-fit in the financial-analysis popular tool. 
